.TH INSTALLED-TO-LIVE 1 "June 2026" "mx-remaster" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
installed-to-live \- build or clean a live-system bind-root from the installed system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B installed-to-live
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ commands ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B installed-to-live
creates and manages the bind-mounted filesystem tree that mx-remaster uses
when it copies an installed system into a live-style layout.
It can mount selected files and directories from the real root into a working
bind root, populate live-file templates, generate exclude lists, and clean up
what it created when the remaster workflow is finished.

The script is used heavily by the live remaster tools, but it can also be run
manually when you want to inspect or reproduce the bind-root layout.
It creates a cleanup file in
.I /tmp/installed-to-live/cleanup.conf
so the changes can be undone later.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B start
Do the main bind-mount setup and create the cleanup configuration.
.TP
.B status
Show status information, including the generated cleanup configuration.
.TP
.B live-files
Bind-mount files from
.I /usr/share/live-files/files
into the working bind-root.
.TP
.B general-files
Bind-mount files from
.I /usr/share/live-files/general-files
into the working bind-root.
.TP
.B read-only
Remount the bind-root as read-only.
.TP
.B read-write
Remount the bind-root as read-write.
.TP
.B passwd
Create general-purpose passwd, shadow, group, and related account files.
.TP
.B add=DIR1,DIR2,...
Add files from the named template directories.
.TP
.B bind=DIR1,DIR2,...
Bind-mount each directory if it is already a mount point.
.TP
.B general
Perform the normal general-purpose bind setup, including emptying selected
configuration directories, copying live files, and resetting repo and timezone
settings.
.TP
.B adjtime
Reset the adjtime file while keeping the UTC/local clock choice.
.TP
.B cleanup
Undo the bind-root setup and remove temporary files.
.TP
.B repo[=COUNTRY]
Reset the APT repository configuration to the given country.
The default country is
.B us
when no argument is supplied.
.TP
.B timezone[=ZONE]
Reset the timezone configuration.
If no zone is supplied, the default live timezone is used.
.TP
.B empty=DIR1,DIR2,...
Bind-mount empty directories at the named paths.
.TP
.B exclude[=PREFIX] FILE1 FILE2 ...
Generate an exclude list from the named files.
If
.B PREFIX
is supplied, it is prepended to each generated entry.
This is mainly a convenience helper for squashfs creation.
.TP
.B version-file[=TITLE]
Create a standard
.I linuxfs.ver
file and bind-mount it at the expected live version-file location.
.TP
.B populate-live-files FROM_DIR [TO_DIR]
Populate the live-files template tree from a mounted live filesystem.
The optional
.B TO_DIR
controls the top-level directory under which the template tree is written.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -b " " \fIROOT\fR , " --bind-root="\fIROOT\fR
Set the root of the new bind-mounted filesystem.
The default is
.IR /.bind-root .
.TP
.BR -e " " \fIDIR\fR , " --excludes-dir="\fIDIR\fR
Set the directory used to store generated exclude files.
The default is
.IR /usr/share/excludes .
.TP
.BR -f " " \fIDIR\fR , " --from="\fIDIR\fR
Set the source directory copied into the bind-root.
The default is
.IR / .
.TP
.BR -F , " --Force"
Delete the working directory when starting.
.TP
.BR -h , " --help"
Show help and exit.
.TP
.BR -o " " \fIFILE\fR , " --output="\fIFILE\fR
Write exclude-command output to
.I FILE
instead of standard output.
.TP
.BR -P , " --pretend"
Do not make changes; show what would be done.
.TP
.BR -r " " \fIUSER:PASS\fR , " --root="\fIUSER:PASS\fR
Set the default root account name and optional password used for generated
files.
If the password is omitted, the username is used as the password.
.TP
.BR -t " " \fIDIR\fR , " --template="\fIDIR\fR
Use an alternate template directory instead of
.IR /usr/share/live-files .
.TP
.BR -u " " \fIUSER:PASS\fR , " --user="\fIUSER:PASS\fR
Set the default non-root account name and optional password used for generated
files.
If the password is omitted, the username is used as the password.
.TP
.BR -w " " \fIDIR\fR , " --work="\fIDIR\fR
Use an alternate temporary working directory.
The default is
.IR /tmp/installed-to-live .
.TP
.BR -v , " --verbose"
Print additional progress information.
.SH NOTES
The command parser accepts multiple commands in sequence, which lets the script
combine setup, template population, and cleanup tasks in one invocation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR live-remaster (1),
.BR persist-makefs (1),
.BR mksquashfs (1)
.SH AUTHOR
mx-remaster maintainers
