.TH LIVE-GRUBSAVE 1 "June 2026" "mx-remaster" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
live-grubsave \- save live boot parameters into grubenv.cfg
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B live-grubsave
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ boot-parameters ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B live-grubsave
reads the current live boot parameters and saves the relevant values into the
GRUB environment file used by the live system.
It is used to preserve boot-time choices such as language, keyboard layout,
persistence device settings, toram, and related live boot parameters.

The script parses the current kernel command line, filters out parameters that
should not be persisted, and writes the remaining values into the grubenv data
used by the live boot workflow.
It is designed to be run on a live system and may prompt for root privileges.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -h , " --help"
Show the help text.
.TP
.BR -l , " --list"
Display the recognized parameter tables and exit.
.TP
.BR -m , " --mount"
Keep the GRUB device mounted even if
.B toram
was used.
.TP
.BR -p , " --print"
Print the current
.I grubenv.cfg
content.
.TP
.BR -r , " --reset"
Remove the saved boot parameters.
.TP
.BR -s , " --simulate"
Show what would be saved, but do not write anything.
.TP
.BR -v , " --version"
Show the program version.
.SH ARGUMENTS
Any additional arguments are treated as extra boot parameters to consider for
saving.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /live/config/initrd.out
Live configuration file that marks the system as a live environment.
.TP
.I /live/config/remasterable
Flag file indicating that the live system can be remastered.
.TP
.I /live/config/grubenv.cfg
GRUB environment file updated by this tool.
.TP
.I /live/config/toram-eject
Flag file used by the toram eject workflow.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR grub-editenv (8),
.BR live-setup (1),
.BR toram-eject (1)
.SH AUTHOR
mx-remaster maintainers
