.TH LIVE-REMASTER 1 "June 2026" "mx-remaster" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
live-remaster \- create a remastered live filesystem from the running live system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B live-remaster
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B live-remaster
creates a new compressed live filesystem from the currently running live system.
It is the main remastering tool in mx-remaster and is intended to be run from a
live session, usually as root.

The script copies the live system into a new squashfs image, updates the live
metadata, and can refresh microcode in the resulting initrd files when supported
by the installed tooling. It preserves the existing live-system workflow and
uses the shared antiX common library for its interface, dialogs, and general
option handling.

The remaster can be run in a general mode, where personal data is excluded, or
in a personal mode, where user settings are kept.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -p , " --pretend"
Build a smaller
.B linuxfs.new
image but do not delete it when the operation finishes.
.TP
.BR -t " "\fITITLE\fR , " --title="\fITITLE\fR
Use
.I TITLE
instead of prompting for a title.
.TP
.BR --general
Create a general-purpose remaster.
This mode excludes personal settings and user data.
.TP
.BR --personal
Create a personalized remaster.
This mode keeps personal settings where possible.
.TP
.BR --no-ucode[=LIST]
Skip microcode refresh when rebuilding initrd images.
The optional
.I LIST
may be
.BR amd ,
.BR intel ,
or
.BR amd,intel .
If no list is supplied, both vendors are skipped.
.TP
.BR --version
Print the program version and exit.
.PP
The script also honors the shared antiX common options provided by the
underlying library, including the normal GUI/CLI and verbosity controls used by
MX live tools.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/live/version/linuxfs.ver
Version metadata written by the remaster workflow and used by boot/menu tools.
.TP
.I /etc/live-kernel-updater/no-ucode-amd
Vendor flag file that disables AMD microcode refresh.
.TP
.I /etc/live-kernel-updater/no-ucode-intel
Vendor flag file that disables Intel microcode refresh.
.TP
.I /live/config
Live configuration and state directory.
.TP
.I /live/boot-dev
Boot device mount used by the remaster workflow.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR installed-to-live (1),
.BR persist-makefs (1),
.BR live-grubsave (1),
.BR mksquashfs (1)
.SH AUTHOR
mx-remaster maintainers
