.TH LIVE-BOOT-REFRESH 1 "June 2026" "mx-remaster" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
live-boot-refresh \- set the live USB boot menu title to the release name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B live-boot-refresh
.RI [ options "] [" mount-point ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the live USB boot menus to the current release name.  This is useful after
a remaster, when the running system reports a new release name but the boot
menus still show the original one.
.PP
The release name is taken from
.I /etc/lsb-release
.RB ( DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION )
when present, otherwise from
.I /etc/os-release
.RB ( PRETTY_NAME ).
When an explicit live USB boot tree is given and it has no
.I etc
metadata, the existing dated boot labels in that tree are used instead.  This
prevents an older mounted USB from being relabeled with the host system's
release name.
.PP
It is written to:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
the title banner \(em the
.B "MENU TITLE"
line of the
.B syslinux
and
.B isolinux
configuration files and the
.RB \(lq "Welcome to \&..." \(rq
text of the
.B GRUB
theme files \(em as
.RB \(lq "Welcome to " \c
.IR release \(rq;
and
.IP \(bu 2
the OS boot entry labels \(em every
.B syslinux / isolinux
.BR "MENU LABEL" ,
.B GRUB
.IR menuentry ,
and gfxboot
.I readme.msg
line that carries a build date (the
.B sysvinit
and
.B systemd
variants) \(em as
.RI \(lq release " (" "current date" )\(rq,
keeping any trailing
.RB \(lq (sysvinit) \(rq
or
.RB \(lq (systemd) \(rq
marker.
.RE
.PP
Entries without a build date (Custom Boot, Memory Test, integrity check, ...)
are left unchanged, as are commented-out entries.
.PP
If
.I mount-point
is omitted, the partition holding the boot menus is located automatically \(em
the BIOS/EFI
.B GRUB
partition, then the boot partition \(em and mounted if needed.  This includes
the case where the device is not currently mounted, for example after booting
.B toram
when boot-dev is empty.  A device that this command mounts is unmounted again
on exit unless
.B --keep-mounted
is given.  Auto-detection requires root and reads the live boot configuration,
so it only works on a running live system; pass an explicit
.I mount-point
otherwise.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -h , " --help"
Show help.
.TP
.BR -n , " --dry-run"
Show what would be changed without modifying files.
.TP
.BR -m , " --keep-mounted"
Do not unmount a device that this command mounted.
.SH FILES
.TP
.IR /etc/lsb-release ", " /etc/os-release
Source of the release name
.RB ( DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION ", then " PRETTY_NAME ).
The copies under
.I <mount-point>/etc
are preferred when an explicit system tree is given; otherwise an explicit boot
tree falls back to its existing dated boot labels.
.TP
.I boot/isolinux/isolinux.cfg, boot/syslinux/syslinux.cfg
Main menu configuration files whose
.B "MENU TITLE"
and dated
.B "MENU LABEL"
lines are updated in place.  Sub-menu configs (e.g.
.IR checkmedia.cfg )
are left alone.
.TP
.I boot/grub/grub.cfg, boot/grub/config/*.cfg
GRUB menu files whose dated
.I menuentry
titles are updated in place.
.TP
.I boot/isolinux/readme.msg, boot/syslinux/readme.msg
gfxboot menu text (what is drawn on screen) whose dated entry lines are
updated in place.
.TP
.I boot/grub/theme/*.txt
GRUB theme files whose
.RB \(lq "Welcome to \&..." \(rq
banner text is updated in place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR live-remaster (1),
.BR live-grubsave (1),
.BR live-setup (1)
.SH AUTHOR
mx-remaster maintainers
