.TH PERSIST-CONFIG 1 "June 2026" "mx-remaster" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
persist-config \- configure automatic root-persistence saves
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B persist-config
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B persist-config
configures how root-persistence saves are triggered in a live system.
It is intended for use by startup and shutdown integration, but it can also be
run manually to change the save mode.

The script writes its configuration to
.I /etc/live/persist-config.conf
and can be told to set up startup handling, shutdown handling, or a custom
shutdown command.
When a custom command is used, the script only accepts reboot and poweroff
commands and treats the request as a shutdown action.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --startup
Create
.I persist-config.conf
if it is missing.
This is the mode used by startup scripts so the configuration exists before the
user reaches shutdown.
.TP
.BR --shutdown
Run
.B persist-save
according to the contents of
.I persist-config.conf
when the system is shutting down.
.TP
.BR --command " "\fICMD\fR
Run
.I CMD
if
.B persist-save
succeeds.
If
.B persist-save
fails, the user is prompted before
.I CMD
is executed.
This option implies
.B --shutdown.
.PP
The script also honors the shared antiX common options provided by the
underlying library, including the normal GUI and verbosity controls.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/live/persist-config.conf
Configuration file written by this tool.
.TP
.I /live/config/persist-save.conf
Flag file indicating that automatic saving is enabled.
.TP
.I /live/config/save-persist
Legacy flag file used to decide whether the tool should run.
.TP
.I /live/config/last-auto-save
Timestamp of the last automatic save.
.TP
.I /live/config/last-persist-save
Timestamp of the last save operation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR persist-save (1),
.BR live-remaster (1)
.SH AUTHOR
mx-remaster maintainers
