.TH PERSIST-MAKEFS 1 "June 2026" "mx-remaster" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
persist-makefs \- create or resize persistence files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B persist-makefs
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B persist-makefs
creates or resizes the filesystem images used for persistence.
It is the main tool for managing the persistence device and the files that live
on it, including root persistence, home persistence, and the special
.B rootfs.new
image used for remastering.

The script provides a device-selection workflow, file creation and resize menus,
and file-system repair or cleanup paths when stale or broken files are found.
It can run in a GUI or in a command-line mode, depending on the launch options
and the shared antiX common library.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -d " "\fIDEVICE\fR , " --dev="\fIDEVICE\fR , " --device="\fIDEVICE\fR
Use
.I DEVICE
as the persistence device.
.TP
.BR -e , " --explore"
Go directly to the exploration menu.
This opens the device/file browser without first showing the main action list.
.TP
.BR -r , " --rootfs"
Go directly to creating or working with
.B rootfs.new
for remastering.
.TP
.BR -f , " --fast"
Enable the fast path accepted by the option parser.
The script currently keeps the normal validation and menu flow; this option is
present for compatibility with the shared option handling.
.TP
.BR -p , " --pretend"
Run in pretend mode.
The tool reports what it would do without committing the change.
.PP
The script also honors the shared antiX common options provided by the
underlying library, including the normal GUI/CLI controls.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /live/config/initrd.out
Primary live configuration file used to locate persistence metadata.
.TP
.I /live/config/linuxrc.out
Fallback configuration file used when initrd.out is unavailable.
.TP
.I rootfs
Root-persistence image managed by this tool.
.TP
.I homefs
Home-persistence image managed by this tool.
.TP
.I rootfs.new
New root-persistence image created for remastering.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR persist-config (1),
.BR persist-save (1),
.BR live-remaster (1)
.SH AUTHOR
mx-remaster maintainers
